RFC-0522 Ember-Data Deprecate default serializers and adapters (#436)
ember-learn/deprecation-app: content/ember-data/v3/default-serializer.md

---
id: ember-data:default-serializers
title: Default serializers usage
until: '4.0.0'
since: '3.12.0'
---
## deprecate adapter.serializer and adapter.defaultSerializer fallbacks
If no application and type specific serializer is specified, the default serializer from the type's adapter is used. This behavior is now deprecated.

> To clear this deprecation users should implement an application or type specific serializer.

Reviewer: Same as above, we need more information. Before / after, what to do specifically, etc.

## -default serializer fallback in store.serializerFor
When no model, application or adapter serializer has specified and the default must be used.

> To clear this deprecation users should implement their an application serializer.

Reviewer: Same as above, I think we know **exactly** what they need to do, we should tell them...

---
id: ember-data:default-serializers
title: Default serializers usage
until: '4.0.0'
since: '3.12.0'
---

> ## Default serializer derprecations

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Default serializer deprecations
```

Author: Ha, "derp".

> ### deprecate adapter.serializer and adapter.defaultSerializer fallbacks

Reviewer 2: I am 100% confident that `adapter.serializer` was never a working codepath and we've now removed it. I think we can just say this is for `adapter.defaultSerializer`

> If no application and type specific serializer is specified, the store will lookup the default serializer from the type's adapter. This behavior is now deprecated. This behavior is deprecated in favor of explicitly defining a serializer for the type or application as a whole as described below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Previously, if no application or type-specific serializer was specified, the store would attempt to lookup a serializer via the `defaultSerializer` property on the type's adapter. This behavior is deprecated in favor of explicitly defining a type-specific serializer or application serializer as described in "clearing these deprecations" below.
```

### -default serializer fallback in store.serializerFor

> When absolutely no serializer has been defined by the app, i.e. there is no model, application, or adapter serializer, the default (`-json-api`) serializer must be used. This behavior is deprecated in favor of explicitly defining a serializer for the type or application as a whole as described below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Previously, when no type-specific serializer, application serializer, or adapter defaultSerializer had been defined by the app, the `-default` serializer would be used which defaulted to `-json-api`. This behavior is deprecated in favor of explicitly defining an application or type-specific serializer as described below.
```

> ## clearing the deprecations

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## clearing these deprecations
```

> ## clearning the deprecations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## clearing the deprecations
```

> More information about custom serializers can be found on the [ember.js/guides](https://guides.emberjs.com/release/models/customizing-serializers/#toc_customizing-serializers)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
More information about custom serializers can be found in the [Serializer API Docs](https://api.emberjs.com/ember-data/release/modules/@ember-data%2Fserializer) or on the [ember.js/guides](https://guides.emberjs.com/release/models/customizing-serializers/#toc_customizing-serializers)
```

If a specific model type requires custom serialization, a type-specific serializer can be created.. Defining a type-specific serializer will clear the first deprecation, but won't clear both deprecations unless a type-specific serializer is defined for every type of model used in the application. To do this, create an `app/serializers/[type].js` with the following:

    import { JSONAPISerializer } from '@ember-data/serializers';

>     export default JSONAPISerializer.extend({/* custom behavior */ });

Reviewer 2: Missing backticks and language for these code samples, and we should use class syntax e.g.

```ts
export default class UserSerializer extends JSONApiSerializer {
  /* custom behavior */
}
```

Defining a serializer for the entire application will clear the second deprecation, and can clear both deprecations if the app doesn't require any type-specific serialization. To do this, create an `app/serializers/application.js` with the following:

>     import { JSONAPISerializer } from '@ember-data/serializers';

Reviewer 2: backticks and class syntax

---
id: ember-data:default-serializers
title: Default serializers usage
until: '4.0.0'
since: '3.12.0'
---
## Default serializer deprecations

> ### deprecate adapter.defaultSerializer fallbacks

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### deprecate adapter.defaultSerializer fallback
```

Previously, if no application or type-specific serializer was specified, the store would attempt to lookup a serializer via the `defaultSerializer` property on the type's adapter. This behavior is deprecated in favor of explicitly defining a type-specific serializer or application serializer as described in "clearing these deprecations" below.

### -default serializer fallback in store.serializerFor
Previously, when no type-specific serializer, application serializer, or adapter defaultSerializer had been defined by the app, the `-default` serializer would be used which defaulted to `-json-api`. This behavior is deprecated in favor of explicitly defining an application or type-specific serializer as described below.

## clearing these deprecations
More information about custom serializers can be found in the [Serializer API Docs](https://api.emberjs.com/ember-data/release/modules/@ember-data%2Fserializer) or on the [ember.js/guides](https://guides.emberjs.com/release/models/customizing-serializers/#toc_customizing-serializers)

> If a specific model type requires custom serialization, a type-specific serializer can be created.. Defining a type-specific serializer will clear the first deprecation, but won't clear both deprecations unless a type-specific serializer is defined for every type of model used in the application. To do this, create an `app/serializers/[type].js` with the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a specific model type requires custom serialization, a type-specific serializer can be created. A single `application` serializer can be used a for any model types not requiring custom serialization. To define a type-specific serializer, create an `app/serializers/[type].js` with the following:
```

Reviewer 2: I felt the way this read before might accidentally lead some users to think they needed to implement a serializer for every single model, so I reworded it to make it clear only those types needing customization needed their own serializers and that otherwise using the application serializer was enough

```js
    import { JSONAPISerializer } from '@ember-data/serializers';

>     export default class UserSerializer extends JSONApiSerializer { /*custom code*/ };

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    export default class UserSerializer extends JSONApiSerializer {
      /*custom code*/
    };
```

>     export default class UserSerializer extends JSONApiSerializer { /*custom code*/ };

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    export default class UserSerializer extends JSONApiSerializer {
      /*custom code*/
    }
```

```

> Defining a serializer for the entire application will clear the second deprecation, and can clear both deprecations if the app doesn't require any type-specific serialization. To do this, create an `app/serializers/application.js` with the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Defining a serializer for the entire application can be done by adding the file `app/serializers/application.js` with the following:
```
